So in the last lecture we've added these custom fields but then we mentioned that it's a much better practice to add these fields
using a plugin rather than adding them directly in the theme. So that your theme users will be able to still
access these fields even if they decided to change your theme.
So let's do that.
Let's create a plugin now.
So to do that we will go to our folder wp-content folder. And then instead of the themes we now will
go to plugins. And here we'll find all the plugins that we've installed so far.
So let's create our own now. And to do that we'll create a new folder. And let's also call it "_themename"
"_themename-metaboxes".
So when you create a plugin that belongs to your theme, it's a good practice that you prefix it with your theme name
and then "-metaboxes.
So I also used here the "_themename" placeholder.
And the reason is we would like to use this folder only for development.
And then as we did for our theme, we will add some gulp tasks to bundle the theme and zip it. And
then rename it to our actual theme name
-metaboxes. So instead of rewriting the whole legal stuff from scratch,
we'll try to borrow the gulpfile from our theme. And then just modify it a little bit in order to match
our needs for the plugin.
Let's go to the code editor. Aand then let's add this folder,  the plugins folder in our workspace.
So plugins and our folder. And add it.So you now have two folders here.
So what we need to do is we need to copy this package.json. And this package.json contains all the plugins
that we need to run our gulp tasks. So let's copy this and create a new file in our plugin. Let's call it
also package.json.
And let's see what we need and what we don't need in these plugins.
So we don't need the "dependencies", the front and dependencies.
So we'll need our CSS plugins. You also need run tasks or CSS and JavaScript maybe your plugin
will have CSS and JavaScript. So I'm gonna leave these also the image minification plugin and gulp-replace
will definitely need that.
And sass, sourcemaps. So you probably need most of these.
Maybe except browserSync, you wouldn't need it.
I think that's it.
So here in the name let's type a plugin name, "metaboxes". And then let's add another field and call it "theme".
And this will be the theme that this plugin belongs to.
So in our case it's, I think called it "firsttteme", yes.
So let's save. And we now need to run "npm install". So install these plugins.
So let's, I'm gonna open a new tab in my terminal and on  windows you can open a new cmd window.
I'm gonna change to my plugins folder and then run "npm install"
So this might take some time I paused the video and it's done for me.
So now in your folder you should have the node_modules folder with all your plugins and package
package-lock.json.
So what we need to do now.
We also need the .babelrc file.
Because we'll use Babel in this plugin in the gulp tasks.
So let's create a new file and call it .babelrc.
And then paste
paste this
and save.
And we also, if you are using GIT, which is a good idea,
you should also add a .gitignore file and ignore the node_modules folder. And the last thing we need is of
course the gulpfile.babel.js. So let's copy that from the theme and let's create a new one in the plugin.
And let's paste and now let's go through it and see what we need to modify.
So we don't need browserSync. So let's remove this. And in the "paths" we'll only need admin.scss because
this plugin will only deal with the backend, the metaboxes. So we don't need to enqueue styles in the
frontend.
Same also of for the "scrips". Let's remove the "customize-preview" and  the "bundle". And in the "package" let's see if we need
to modify anything. And no, I think this will be fine.
Let's now remove the browserSync stuff. So the "serve" and "reload" tasks. And the "server.stream()" in the
sass. And in "watch" tasks we will have to remove the "reload"s.
So
and in the "scripts", it's fine.
And we'll have to do some modifications in the "compress". Bıt let's first remove the "serve" from here.
And I think that's it.
So we're basically now doing the same thing as in the theme but we just remove the browserSync because
it will not be very useful in this case.
So in the "compress" task instead of "_themename" we now want to replace a placeholder called "_pluginname"
with the "info.name" which will be this. And then also replace the "_themename"
with "info.theme". So we'll have also to reference the theme name when prefix our functions in plugin.
So we will replace both of them. And then we need finally to call the plugin "$
"$-$.zip".
So it will be called firsttheme-metaboxes.zip.
firsttheme-metaboxes.zip.
That's what we need.
So to create a plugin it's required to add a file in your plugins folder called index.php.
And in this file we will type some information about this plugin.
It's like we did in the theme's style.css. So in a comment block we will type some information
about the theme. So instead of typing this whole thing to save some time I'm gonna paste it.
And let's go through it quickly.
So we have the "Plugin Name" and I'm gonna call it "_themename " and then the "_pluginname".
So this will be the "firsttheme metaboxes". And then a "Description".
So "Adding Metaboxes for" and then the "_themename". And then "Version" and "Author" and yo know "License" and stuff like that.
And then the "Text Domain". And this should be different than your theme's text domain.
So it's usually called the "_themename" and then "-_pluginnamename".
So when we build our plugin this will be firsttheme-metaboxes.
firsttheme-metaboxes. So let's save that. And also in index.php you should add an if condition
here.
As the first thing in your code. And then the condition will be "!defined".
And then here "WPINC"
"die".
And these couple of lines here will prevent direct access to your index.php file. And I'll put you
a link if you want to read more about that.
Now let's try and activate our theme. So as to go to the Plugins and now we have our theme. So let's
activate it. And our theme does nothing right now.
So let's continue in the next
lecture and move our code that adds the metaboxes from our theme to our plugin.